---
author:
  name: 'Shaishav Shah'
  picture: 'https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/38801683?v=4'
coverImage: '/images/carbon-UwMT.png'
title: 'CarbonOffset'
status: 'published'
slug: 'carbonoffset'
description: 'Given a tracking number, figure out the recommended donation amount to offset the carbon footprint from your package!'
category: 'Fullstack'
publishedAt: '2024-05-12T02:09:34.041Z'
---

---

# Carbon Offset Calculator

Say goodbye to carbon guilt with the Carbon Offset Calculator, an ASP.NET web application designed to help users mitigate the environmental impact of their package deliveries! 🌍📦

### About

The Carbon Offset Calculator is a user-friendly web app that provides individuals with an estimate of how much they should donate to offset the carbon emissions generated by shipping their package. By simply entering a tracking number, users can access valuable information about the environmental footprint of their delivery journey.

### How It Works

The app utilizes three external APIs to gather longitude and latitude points for the route of the package. Using this data, it calculates the carbon emissions associated with the transportation process. Users are then presented with a recommended donation amount to offset these emissions and contribute to environmental conservation efforts.

### Built for Learning

The Carbon Offset Calculator serves as a practical learning tool for those seeking exposure to the C# language and the ASP.NET MVC framework. Through hands-on development, users can gain valuable insights into web application development while tackling real-world environmental challenges.

### Tech Stack

- **C#**
- **MVC**
- **ASP.NET**
- **API**
- **HTML**
- **CSS**

### What's Inside

- **C#**: Powers the backend logic and calculation algorithms.
- **MVC**: Utilized for structuring the application and separating concerns.
- **ASP.NET**: Provides the framework for building robust web applications.
- **API Integration**: Interfaces with external APIs to retrieve location data.
- **HTML & CSS**: Ensures a visually appealing and intuitive user interface.

### Next Steps

As the Carbon Offset Calculator continues to evolve, future enhancements may include improved accuracy through advanced data analysis techniques, integration with additional environmental impact metrics, and enhanced user experience features.

### Get Involved

Join us in our mission to reduce carbon emissions and create a more sustainable future. Check out our project repository and contribute to the cause!

---

[**Github Link**](https://github.com/ShaishavShah04/Offset-Carbon-From-Packages/tree/master)

 